
Welcome to Touring, the auto audio tour.  Now available for Highway 101 through the town of Encinitas from Encinitas Blvd to the San Elijo lagoon.

On the left...

On the right...

Cottonwood Creek.  This ravine is part of Moonlight Beach Park.  Cottonwood Creek runs through this ravine and dumps onto the beach two blocks to the west.  The creek was instrumental in the creation of the town of Encinitas. It supplied water for the California Southern Railroad and was a major source of water for early settlers.

El Callejon.  Mexican restaurant featuring traditional recipes.  The best margarita in town, and it's only $3 during happy hour every day.

La Paloma Theatre.  Opened in 1928.  The Spanish Mission and art deco design.  One of the first theatres to show talkies, it also has a vaudeville stage, and originally had a pipe organ. It was built for $50,000 in 1928, designed and financed by men from Hollywood and Santa Monica.  Today it's a favorite community venue, often hosting local surf movie premieres, and occasional concerts.

East Village Asian Diner.  Asian comfort food.  Dishes from Japan, Korea, China, and other regions of Asia.

Wenz Building.  The Detour hair salon is located in the Wenz Building, also known as the Danforth building.  Built in 1937 it was originally half the size it is today.  The building has at one time housed the post office, a grocery market, and a five-and-dime variety store.

Kim's Vietnamese and Chinese Restaurant.  Family owned and operated since 1986.

The Lumberyard.  A four-block long strip mall.  Built in the late 70's.  A series of one-story red brick structures.

Blue sky mural.  All along the top story of this two-story building.

The Java Hut.  A local coffee shop and hangout with years of local surf tradition.

Self-Realization Fellowship.  This unique property bounded by the white stucco walls with the purple and gold lotus blossom turrets was the home of Yogandana, the beloved guru.  Yogananda brought Hindu yogic thought from India to America.  He ended up here in Encinitas in the 50's, and left an indelible legacy in the yoga studios and other new age establishments all over town.  This property is now a monastery run by the Self-Realization Fellowship, an organization Yogananda founded.

Swami's State Park.  Named for the world class surf spot below.  The surfers named this location in honor of Swami Yogananda.

Cardiff Composer District.  In 1912, when Cardiff by the Sea was first developed, Victor Kremer moved to San Diego to find a better climate for his wife who was suffering from tuberculosis.  Four years later he began buying up land here in the north part of Cardiff.  Kremer had run a music publishing business in Chicago, and here he named the streets after composers.  He would bring his vaudeville friends up from San Diego to show them the area and sell them property, getting $100 for a 50-foot lot.

San Elijo State Beach.  Perched up on the bluff above the beach is this campground with facilities for campers and tents.  Just south of the park entrance is the Eli Howard surf school.  They have great surfing instruction with classes for kids and families.

Restaurant Row.  This commercial strip along the water contains five restaurants, including Las Olas for mexican food and Ki’s for health food..  

The San Elijo Lagoon.  This low flat area between Cardiff and Solana Beach is one of San Diego's last estuaries.  This estuary - or coastal wetland - creates unique habitats for rare animals and plants, due to the exchange of fresh water feeding in from Escondido Creek, and salt water running in from the ocean with the tide.  The San Elijo Lagoon is a state park.  It extends eastward all the way to Rancho Santa Fe, encompassing 1000 acres, and seven miles of hiking and biking trails.
